docs/rules/README.md, before:

---
sidebarDepth: 0
---

# Available Rules

The `--fix` option on the [command line](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#fixing-problems) automatically fixes problems reported by rules which have a wrench :wrench: below.  
The rules with the following star :star: are included in the `plugin:node-dependencies/recommended` config.

<!-- This file is automatically generated in tools/update-docs-rules-index.js, do not change! -->

### Possible Errors

| Rule ID | Description |    |
|:--------|:------------|:---|
| [node-dependencies/compat-engines](./compat-engines.md) | enforce the versions of the engines of the dependencies to be compatible. | :star: |
| [node-dependencies/valid-semver](./valid-semver.md) | enforce versions that is valid as a semantic version. | :star: |

### Best Practices

| Rule ID | Description |    |
|:--------|:------------|:---|
| [node-dependencies/absolute-version](./absolute-version.md) | require or disallow absolute version of dependency. |  |
| [node-dependencies/no-deprecated](./no-deprecated.md) | disallow having dependencies on deprecate packages. |  |

### Deprecated

- :warning: We're going to remove deprecated rules in the next major release. Please migrate to successor/new rules.
- :innocent: We don't fix bugs which are in deprecated rules since we don't have enough resources.

| Rule ID | Replaced by |
|:--------|:------------|
| [node-dependencies/valid-engines](./valid-engines.md) | [node-dependencies/compat-engines](./compat-engines.md.md) |

Commit message:

Add no-restricted-deps rule

docs/rules/README.md, after:

---
sidebarDepth: 0
---

# Available Rules

The `--fix` option on the [command line](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#fixing-problems) automatically fixes problems reported by rules which have a wrench :wrench: below.  
The rules with the following star :star: are included in the `plugin:node-dependencies/recommended` config.

<!-- This file is automatically generated in tools/update-docs-rules-index.js, do not change! -->

### Possible Errors

| Rule ID | Description |    |
|:--------|:------------|:---|
| [node-dependencies/compat-engines](./compat-engines.md) | enforce the versions of the engines of the dependencies to be compatible. | :star: |
| [node-dependencies/valid-semver](./valid-semver.md) | enforce versions that is valid as a semantic version. | :star: |

### Best Practices

| Rule ID | Description |    |
|:--------|:------------|:---|
| [node-dependencies/absolute-version](./absolute-version.md) | require or disallow absolute version of dependency. |  |
| [node-dependencies/no-deprecated](./no-deprecated.md) | disallow having dependencies on deprecate packages. |  |
| [node-dependencies/no-restricted-deps](./no-restricted-deps.md) | Disallows dependence on the specified package. |  |

### Deprecated

- :warning: We're going to remove deprecated rules in the next major release. Please migrate to successor/new rules.
- :innocent: We don't fix bugs which are in deprecated rules since we don't have enough resources.

| Rule ID | Replaced by |
|:--------|:------------|
| [node-dependencies/valid-engines](./valid-engines.md) | [node-dependencies/compat-engines](./compat-engines.md.md) |
